And this is more of a review for those
who've never done it in canvas-sketch,
but just a way to export animations.
So let's say we had this,
we're able to export PNGs.
But let's say we wanted a very
simple animation of this spinning.
And then we wanted to export it as
a 5 second GIF, or a 5 second MP4.
So what we're gonna do is we're going
to set a duration in the settings.
And the duration is going to make it so
that time goes from 0,
all the way to the duration in seconds,
and then it resets back at 0.
So now I'm gonna scroll down
into my render function.
I'm gonna say mesh.rotation.y = time.
And you'll see what will happen is
after 5 seconds, this is gonna snap and
start again at 0.
So this is what this duration just did,
is it makes it so
that the loop is gonna restart
at 0 every time it hits 5.
But instead of using time,
which we could use for animations,
let's say we wanted this to
be a perfectly seamless loop.
We're gonna use a value called playhead.
Playhead is a value that goes from 0 to 1,
depending on how far
along we are in the loop.
And so I just made an error.
But you have to still probably include
time if you're using it somewhere else in
your function, like for the uniform.
So I've just extracted both.
So yeah, playhead goes from 0 to 1.
And by multiplying this playhead by, let's
say math.PI times 2, all of a sudden,
what we're gonna do is we're gonna
create a perfectly seamless rotation.
Because by the time it hits a full circle,
the end of the loop is
going to have been hit.
And the start of the loop
will begin again.
And so now we have this seamless rotation,
and we can slow it down by slowing
down the duration, or
by increasing the duration of the loop.
So a 10 second loop, or
a 2 second, or 3 second.
So how do I finally export this as an MP4?
So let's say we wanna
export this as a MP4,
that would be maybe
a 1080 by 1080 pixel MP4.
I'm gonna set the dimensions to 1080.
And then what I need to do is first,
I need to install a little utility.
And it's outlined in the docs in the repo,
in the workshop repo.
If we scroll down to Intro
to canvas-sketch, And
we look at the Exporting MP4 and GIF.
So the default wave of exporting
frames is to export each frame
as it renders as a different
PNG into a Download folder.
Now, you're not gonna wanna copy and
paste what I'm doing here.
You're not gonna wanna do this, but
I'll just show you how it looks.
If I hit Cmd+S,
that exports a single image.
If I hit Cmd+Shift+S, or
Ctrl+Shift+S, that begins
exporting each frame of this
animation into my Downloads folder.
And so you don't wanna do that,
because it's just gonna
populate your Downloads folder.
So I'm gonna delete all these for now.
But you could use this Cmd when
you're creating the server.
So you could kill the server and
recreate it, specify an output folder.
And then that will save all of these
frames into the Output folder, and
then you can compile that into
an MP4 with maybe some software.
But we're gonna make it easier.
And this is a new feature of canvas-sketch
that's been included more recently.
So we're just going to copy and
paste this line.
And this is going to
install FFMPEG globally for
us, a version that's gonna work
nicely with canvas-sketch.
So you pretty much just copy this line in.
And once it installs,
then we're going to go to our
server that's running our sketch.
So find whichever one is running
the same server here, the same thing.
We're gonna kill it, and
we're gonna start again.
But this time,
we're gonna pass this argument stream.
You're gonna say canvas-sketch
shader.js --stream.
What this is going to do is it's
going to use FFMPEG to stream
all these these frames
directly into an MP4 file.
So now I'm gonna reload the page and
hit Cmd+Shift+S.
You'll notice it's saying
streaming into MP4.
And it might take a little while.
It's a 10 second loop, so
it has to render each of these frames.
But eventually, in our Downloads,
now we have an MP4 file,
which loops perfectly seamlessly.
We can specify things like frame
rate by going into our settings,
and saying maybe the frame
rate is gonna be 60.
Because before, it was using,
let's say the default might be 30.
I can't remember if it's 25 or 30.
And so now the frame rate's 60,
so there's gonna be more frames.
That's just something to keep in mind.
If you hit Cmd+Shift+S, well,
it's running while it's recording.
It's just gonna stop recording.
So I'll just do a quick 4 second loop.
So for MP4,
if you wanna create a high resolution MP4,
you would do something like this,
FPS is 60, maybe 1080 P dimensions.
So now I've created this
very fluid 60 FPS animation.
Compare that to this,
which is not as fluid,
because this is using probably 25 or
30 frames per second.
And then one little thing would be GIFs.
So if you're doing a GIF instead of doing
1080, you might wanna use lower numbers.
Otherwise, this is gonna be a huge 20
megabyte GIF, so you might wanna use 24,
25, or 30 for FPS.
And then dimensions might be 512 by 512,
or smaller, bigger,
depending on what you wanna do.
And if you wanna make GIFs
with this stream approach,
you'll just kill the server,
do the same thing.
But pass in stream = GIF, and
that's gonna stream it as a GIF
file instead of an MP4 file.
So now when I hit Cmd+Shift+S,
I'll be given a GIF file.
And so on Twitter,
I often use GIF for exporting and
for sharing these kinda things,
cuz on Twitter, it loops very nicely.
You get true colors, and that kinda thing.
But on Instagram,
you can't really easily share GIFs.
I don't think it's possible to just
drag and drop a GIF into Instagram, so
you're gonna have to use MP4.
And before it has some color loss, because
it's not a totally lossless color format,
but that's okay,
it still looks pretty good.
And that's kinda the last little thing,
which is, again, just a bit of a review
around canvas-sketch, but
it's a nice, helpful thing.